# Clustering Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks Using Genetic and Bacterial Conjugation Algorithms
This source code is my thesis implementation in MATLAB. This source code clusters Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks using Genetic and Bacterial conjugation Algorithms.

Recent advances in wireless technologies has led to the development of Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks (MWSNs). However, as the mobile sensor nodes are low-powered devices, energy efficiency is one of the most crucial issues in designing the network, along with the challenges imposed by the mobility of nodes, among which are dynamic topology, dynamic clustering, and unknown positioning of nodes. Power optimization can be obtained by minimizing the active communication and selecting efficient cluster-heads. With regard to fundamental characteristics of these networks they are more applicable in search and rescue operations, health and environmental monitoring and intelligent traffic control systems. Beside all of the challenges caused by the mobility of the sensor nodes, we can note to the routing and dynamic clustering. Previous studies show that cluster models with adjustable parameters have significant impact in minimizing energy consumption and extend the lifetime of the network. Therefore, the main objective of this research is to present a smarter way for selecting cluster-heads using evolutionary algorithms for increasing Lifetime of the Network and correct delivery of packets. Basic algorithm for clustering MWSNs is LEACH-M which I implemented it with Matlab simulator. After LEACH-M, Genetic Algorithm (GA) implemented and applied for smarter selection of cluster-heads. Then, for efficient cluster head selection Bacterial Conjugation (BC) algorithm is applied to sensors in sensor field. The results of the simulation represent BC has some growth in accelerating the clustering speed and increasing clusters lifetime.
